So now,
we're talking about experience, right?
So that's the most important part
as a front end and as a programmer.
That's what trumps whatever college you
went to, whether you're self taught or
not, or whether you went to a boot camp or
anything like that.
So the boot camper problem is you're
gonna talk about the product.
We tend to talk about the projects, but
you don't really talk about what
you learned or what was the impact.
So we're gonna go through
an exercise right now,
in which after I go through this,
I'll give you guys some time to do it.
I'm gonna show you guys how to write for
experience.
So let's say it was a boot camper.
Let's say I would write here,
I will put, so
this is what I was immersed in, right?
So I'm gonna put General Assembly.
I spelled that wrong, make sure,
Assembly just spell, now assembly,
colon, Web developer,
Try and hit preset,
And let's see, So
we will focus on our problem solving and
working alone on parts of it, right?
So how to find the solution
of the problem, right?
So focus on building projects.
Let's see, I'll use get,
Various workflows and
how to quickly pick up technologies and
adapt them to our goals, right?
Cuz that's what they really wanna know,
right?
Cuz all the boot camps pretty
much now teach the same thing,
unless they're a city style boot camp,
right?
If you're in a region that's heavy
in .NET, they'll teach .NET for
the boot camp, right?
But for the most part,
they all teach either full stack MERN,
full stack MEAN or
JavaScript and Python, right?
So that's what it is, they wanna know
is the things we learned, the heart,
what you learned that people
don't talk about, right?
They can look at that and see, right?
So I'm talking about how I learned
how to use Git, how to use workflows,
how to quickly pick up on various
technologies, multiple technologies,
Building multiple projects and
learning how to work as a unit on tight
deadlines without constant
guidance from instructors.
So what I'm saying is,
I focus on building multiple things and
learning how to work as
a unit on a tech team, right?
Or yeah, let's use unit, cuz I'm military,
I use unit, but tech team.
There you go, as a tech team with
tight deadlines without constant
guidance from instructors.
So it's kind of this idea like
the instructor is a manager and
your tech team is working
without bothering them.
They're meeting the metrics of the manager
without bothering them too much, right?
We'll understand how to use get various
workflows and how to quickly pick up
multiple technologies and
adapt them to our goals, right?
So to showcase that I was in a constant
learning phase and always building stuff,
right?
So let's talk about job experience
that has absolutely nothing to do
with my web developer stuff, right?
So I'm gonna put US, Air Force,
because that was my first job, right?
And I will put, it was 2004 to 2010,
so US Air Force, 2004 to 2010.
I was security forces, so
what does that have to do with tech?
So this is what I do when I follow
this protocol, I extrapolate or
extract the soft
skills that I got from
the military right here, right?
So I'm talking about how I was,
Worked in a fast paced environment
which is true because doing
gangster stuff with the government is,
well, it's fast.
[LAUGH] We're in a fast
paced environment where I
had to rapidly learn and
pick up new skills by
immersing myself into
cultures and other teams,
Took a disciplined approach
to learn multiple languages.
That benefit me,
My performance of my duties, all right?
Because I was deployed multiple times.
So this is basically me saying, hey,
I'm accustomed to work in a fast paced,
ever evolving environment,
because that's what technology is, right?
I know that tech moves fast,
military moves fast.
Let me show them I'm already
accustomed to moving fast, right?
Where I had to rapidly learn and
pick up new skills by immersing
myself in a culture change.
Like so he's already accustomed to jumping
in, becoming a part of the team and
devouring everything,
all of our practices and things.
Cuz he had to do that already, right?
Took a disciplined approach, I make sure
I put that in there, disciplined approach
in learning multiple languages to
benefit my performance of my duties.
What was the motivation behind that?
To benefit performance of my duties,
you learn multiple languages,
can you explain to this
disciplined approach?
Yeah, well learn about about
how the Lord's Prayer had all
the words in it that
most language is used.
And I would focus on that to
learn language, things like that,
being able to have that stuff and
converse to actually be able to share
that when I'm in an interview, right?
So that's what I mean by extrapolating or
extracting
the soft skills that you're gonna have
from something out of a job that might
not have the soft skills that you need or
the hard skills that you need, right?
Cuz I didn't touch a computer
at all in the Air Force.
I'm not one of those people that
are behind a desk and pushing numbers,
tapping on my fingers on computers and
keys and stuff.
No, I was outside in the desert,
it was hot, not fun.
It was like Texas times five in
the summer, so it was a big, big nope.
So that's what I had to do when I left
the military, was I had to showcase
the soft skills that I picked up while
in the military to the employer.
So thinking like, okay,
this matches what we need here, right?
So mine is collaborative,
someone is accustomed to being fast paced,
uncharted waters regularly.
Someone who's accustomed in
immersing themselves in new things.
These are the things that we need here
now, so at least, we know he has that.